624 
WTNT34 KNHC 072049
TCPAT4
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Isaias Advisory Number   5
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092026
400 PM CDT Wed Oct 07 2026
 
...ISAIAS QUICKLY INTENSIFYING, FORECAST TO BE A HURRICANE BY 
THURSDAY MORNING...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 400 PM CDT...2100 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...22.7N 92.9W
ABOUT 225 MI...365 KM WNW OF PROGRESO MEXICO
ABOUT 500 MI...805 KM SSW OF THE MOUTH OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...65 MPH...100 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...ENE OR 65 DEGREES AT 8 MPH...13 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...994 MB...29.36 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
None
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Mouth of the Mississippi River to Yankeetown
 
A Hurricane Watch is in effect for...
* Bay St. Louis to Indian Pass
 
A Tropical Storm Watch is in effect for...
* Jefferson/Plaquemines Parish line to west of Bay St. Louis
* East of Indian Pass to Aucilla River
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours.
For a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.
 
A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible
within the watch area.  A watch is typically issued 48 hours
before the anticipated first occurrence of tropical-storm-force
winds, conditions that make outside preparations difficult or
dangerous.
 
A Tropical Storm Watch means that tropical storm conditions are
possible within the watch area, generally within 48 hours.
 
Interests in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico and elsewhere
around the U.S. northern Gulf Coast should closely monitor the
progress of this system.
 
Additional watches and warnings could be required for a portion of
the U.S. northern Gulf Coast tonight.
 
For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 400 PM CDT (2100 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Isaias was 
located near latitude 22.7 North, longitude 92.9 West. Isaias is 
moving toward the east-northeast near 8 mph (13 km/h). A continued 
east-northeastward motion is expected today, followed by a turn 
toward the northeast and north on Thursday and Friday. On the 
forecast track, Isaias is expected to pass to the north of the 
Yucatan Peninsula on Thursday and make landfall along the U.S. 
northern Gulf Coast late Friday or early Saturday.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 65 mph (100 km/h) with higher 
gusts. Isaias is forecast to become a hurricane by Thursday morning, 
with further strengthening expected through Friday morning.  
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 60 miles (95 km)
from the center.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure is 994 mb (29.36 inches) 
based on NOAA Hurricane Hunter dropsonde data.
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Isaias can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC.
 
STORM SURGE:  The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline.  The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Ocean Springs, MS to Indian Pass, FL...5-7 ft
Mobile Bay...5-7 ft
Mouth of the Mississippi River, LA to Ocean Springs, MS...3-5 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Steinhatchee River, FL...4-6 ft
Steinhatchee River, FL to Yankeetown, FL...2-4 ft
Lake Pontchartrain...1-3 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the east of the landfall location, where the surge will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding
depends on the relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle,
and can vary greatly over short distances.  For information
specific to your area, please see products issued by your local
National Weather Service forecast office.
 
For a complete depiction of areas at risk of storm surge inundation, 
please see the National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge Graphic, 
available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions could begin in the Hurricane Watch area
late Friday, and tropical storm conditions could begin in the
watch areas by midday Friday.
 
Gusty winds are possible in portions of the Yucatan Peninsula
on Thursday.
 
RAINFALL:  Isaias is expected to produce rainfall amounts of 1 to 3 
inches through Thursday across coastal portions of the eastern Bay 
of Campeche with isolated higher amounts possible in the states of 
Campeche and western Yucatan.

From Friday through the weekend, the system is expected to produce 
rainfall amounts of 3 to 7 inches, with localized totals up to 10 
inches, across the central U.S. Gulf Coast extending from far 
southeastern Louisiana to the Florida Panhandle. Rainfall amounts of 
1 to 3 inches, with localized amounts up to 5 inches, are possible 
across much of the Southeast as far north as the Tennessee Valley 
and the Carolinas. Flash and urban flooding, along with isolated 
river flooding, will be possible. 

For a complete depiction of forecast rainfall associated with 
Tropical Storm Isaias, please see the National Weather Service Storm 
Total Rainfall Graphic available at
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and the Flash Flood Risk 
graphic at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero

TORNADO:  Tornado potential will increase as rain bands 
accompanying Isaias approach the northeastern Gulf Coast Friday 
evening and overnight.  This potential will spread inland on 
Saturday as Isaias continues northward.
 
SURF: Swells are expected to affect the western and northern 
portions of the Yucatan Peninsula beginning on Thursday and spread 
northward toward the Gulf Coast late this week. These swells are 
likely to cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. 
Please consult products from your local weather office.
 
A depiction of rip current risk for the United States can be found
at: hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ripCurrents
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 700 PM CDT.
Next complete advisory at 1000 PM CDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Blake
